docs/configuration.md, before:

# ⚙️ Configuration Guide

Logify provides flexible configuration through multiple sources with a clear priority order.

---

## Configuration Priority

Settings are resolved in this order (highest to lowest priority):

```
1. Python Code Arguments  (highest)
2. Environment Variables
3. logify.yaml file
4. Default Values         (lowest)
```

This means you can set defaults in `logify.yaml`, override them with environment variables for different environments, and still override specific values in code.

---

## Configuration Methods

### 1. Python Code (Highest Priority)

Pass configuration directly to the `Logify` constructor:

```python
from logify import Logify

log = Logify(
    name="myapp",
    level="DEBUG",
    color=True,
    file="myapp.log",
    log_dir="logs",
    mask=True
)
```

### 2. Environment Variables

Set environment variables with the `LOG_` prefix:

```bash
# Linux/macOS
export LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
export LOG_FILE=app.log
export LOG_COLOR=True
export LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS=localhost:9092

# Windows PowerShell
$env:LOG_LEVEL = "DEBUG"
$env:LOG_FILE = "app.log"
```

Or use a `.env` file (loaded automatically via python-dotenv):

```env
LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
LOG_FILE=app.log
LOG_DIR=logs
LOG_COLOR=True
LOG_MASK=True
```

### 3. YAML Configuration File

Create a `logify.yaml` file in your project root:

```yaml
# Logging Settings
LOG_LEVEL: DEBUG
LOG_FILE: app.log
LOG_DIR: logs
LOG_COLOR: True
LOG_JSON: False
LOG_MASK: True
LOG_MODE: dev

# File Rotation
LOG_MAX_BYTES: 10000000
LOG_BACKUP_COUNT: 5

# Remote HTTP Streaming
LOG_REMOTE: http://localhost:5000/logs

# Kafka Streaming
LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS: localhost:9092
LOG_KAFKA_TOPIC: app-logs
LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY: http://localhost:8081
LOG_SCHEMA_COMPATIBILITY: BACKWARD
```

---

## All Configuration Options

### Core Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `name` | - | - | `"app"` | Logger name (identifies the service) |
| `level` | `LOG_LEVEL` | `LOG_LEVEL` | `"INFO"` | Minimum log level |
| `mode` | `LOG_MODE` | `LOG_MODE` | `"dev"` | Preset mode (dev/prod/simple) |

### Output Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `file` | `LOG_FILE` | `LOG_FILE` | `"app.log"` | Log file name |
| `log_dir` | `LOG_DIR` | `LOG_DIR` | `"logs"` | Directory for log files |
| `color` | `LOG_COLOR` | `LOG_COLOR` | `False` | Enable colored console output |
| `json_mode` | `LOG_JSON` | `LOG_JSON` | `False` | Enable JSON formatted logs |
| `mask` | `LOG_MASK` | `LOG_MASK` | `True` | Mask sensitive data |

### File Rotation Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `max_bytes` | `LOG_MAX_BYTES` | `LOG_MAX_BYTES` | `10000000` | Max file size before rotation (bytes) |
| `backup_count` | `LOG_BACKUP_COUNT` | `LOG_BACKUP_COUNT` | `5` | Number of backup files to keep |

### Remote HTTP Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `remote_url` | `LOG_REMOTE` | `LOG_REMOTE` | `None` | HTTP endpoint URL |

### Kafka Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `kafka_servers` | `LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS` | `LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS` | `None` | Kafka bootstrap servers |
| `kafka_topic` | `LOG_KAFKA_TOPIC` | `LOG_KAFKA_TOPIC` | `"logs"` | Kafka topic name |
| `schema_registry_url` | `LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY` | `LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY` | `None` | Schema Registry URL |
| `schema_compatibility` | `LOG_SCHEMA_COMPATIBILITY` | `LOG_SCHEMA_COMPATIBILITY` | `"BACKWARD"` | Schema compatibility mode |

---

## Log Levels

| Level | Value | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| `DEBUG` | 10 | Detailed information for debugging |
| `INFO` | 20 | General operational information |
| `WARNING` | 30 | Something unexpected happened |
| `ERROR` | 40 | A serious problem occurred |
| `CRITICAL` | 50 | Program may not be able to continue |

---

## Preset Modes

Logify includes preset configurations for common use cases:

### `dev` Mode (Development)

```python
{
    "level": "DEBUG",
    "color": True,
    "json_mode": False
}
```

Best for: Local development with verbose, colorful output.

### `prod` Mode (Production)

```python
{
    "level": "INFO",
    "color": False,
    "json_mode": True
}
```

Best for: Production with structured JSON logs for aggregators like ELK, Splunk.

### `simple` Mode

```python
{
    "level": "INFO",
    "color": False,
    "json_mode": False
}
```

Best for: Simple plain-text logging without colors.

### Using Presets

```python
# Preset with overrides
log = Logify(
    name="myapp",
    mode="prod",        # Use production preset
)
```

---

## Environment-Specific Configuration

### Development Setup

```yaml
# logify.yaml
LOG_MODE: dev
LOG_LEVEL: DEBUG
LOG_COLOR: True
```

### Production Setup

```yaml
# logify.yaml
LOG_MODE: prod
LOG_LEVEL: INFO
LOG_JSON: True
LOG_REMOTE: http://log-aggregator:5000/logs
LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS: kafka:9092
```

### Using `.env` for Secrets

```env
# .env (add to .gitignore)
LOG_REMOTE=http://internal-log-server:5000/logs
LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS=kafka.internal:9092
LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY=http://schema-registry.internal:8081
```

---

## Viewing Current Configuration

Use the CLI to inspect resolved configuration:

```bash
logify --config
```

Output:
```
📦 Logify Configuration (logify.yaml: found):

{
    "level": "DEBUG",
    "color": true,
    "max_bytes": 10000000,
    "backup_count": 5,
    "log_dir": "logs",
    "file": "app.log",
    "mode": "dev",
    "json_mode": false,
    "mask": true,
    "remote_url": null,
    "kafka_servers": "localhost:9092",
    "kafka_topic": "logs",
    "schema_registry_url": null,
    "schema_compatibility": "BACKWARD"
}
```

---

## Next Steps

- [Handlers Reference](handlers.md) - Learn about output handlers
- [Kafka Streaming](kafka.md) - Set up Kafka log streaming
- [CLI Reference](cli.md) - Command line tools

Commit message:

Rename Logify to Logifyx throughout the codebase, updating all references, configuration files, and documentation accordingly. Adjust CLI commands, YAML configuration, and example scripts to reflect the new naming convention. Ensure all tests are updated to use Logifyx and verify functionality remains intact.

docs/configuration.md, after:

# ⚙️ Configuration Guide

Logifyx provides flexible configuration through multiple sources with a clear priority order.

---

## Configuration Priority

Settings are resolved in this order (highest to lowest priority):

```
1. Python Code Arguments  (highest)
2. Environment Variables
3. logifyx.yaml file
4. Default Values         (lowest)
```

This means you can set defaults in `logifyx.yaml`, override them with environment variables for different environments, and still override specific values in code.

---

## Configuration Methods

### 1. Python Code (Highest Priority)

Pass configuration directly to the `Logifyx` constructor:

```python
from logifyx import Logifyx

log = Logifyx(
    name="myapp",
    level="DEBUG",
    color=True,
    file="myapp.log",
    log_dir="logs",
    mask=True
)
```

### 2. Environment Variables

Set environment variables with the `LOG_` prefix:

```bash
# Linux/macOS
export LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
export LOG_FILE=app.log
export LOG_COLOR=True
export LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS=localhost:9092

# Windows PowerShell
$env:LOG_LEVEL = "DEBUG"
$env:LOG_FILE = "app.log"
```

Or use a `.env` file (loaded automatically via python-dotenv):

```env
LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
LOG_FILE=app.log
LOG_DIR=logs
LOG_COLOR=True
LOG_MASK=True
```

### 3. YAML Configuration File

Create a `logifyx.yaml` file in your project root:

```yaml
# Logging Settings
LOG_LEVEL: DEBUG
LOG_FILE: app.log
LOG_DIR: logs
LOG_COLOR: True
LOG_JSON: False
LOG_MASK: True
LOG_MODE: dev

# File Rotation
LOG_MAX_BYTES: 10000000
LOG_BACKUP_COUNT: 5

# Remote HTTP Streaming
LOG_REMOTE: http://localhost:5000/logs

# Kafka Streaming
LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS: localhost:9092
LOG_KAFKA_TOPIC: app-logs
LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY: http://localhost:8081
LOG_SCHEMA_COMPATIBILITY: BACKWARD
```

---

## All Configuration Options

### Core Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `name` | - | - | `"app"` | Logger name (identifies the service) |
| `level` | `LOG_LEVEL` | `LOG_LEVEL` | `"INFO"` | Minimum log level |
| `mode` | `LOG_MODE` | `LOG_MODE` | `"dev"` | Preset mode (dev/prod/simple) |

### Output Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `file` | `LOG_FILE` | `LOG_FILE` | `"app.log"` | Log file name |
| `log_dir` | `LOG_DIR` | `LOG_DIR` | `"logs"` | Directory for log files |
| `color` | `LOG_COLOR` | `LOG_COLOR` | `False` | Enable colored console output |
| `json_mode` | `LOG_JSON` | `LOG_JSON` | `False` | Enable JSON formatted logs |
| `mask` | `LOG_MASK` | `LOG_MASK` | `True` | Mask sensitive data |

### File Rotation Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `max_bytes` | `LOG_MAX_BYTES` | `LOG_MAX_BYTES` | `10000000` | Max file size before rotation (bytes) |
| `backup_count` | `LOG_BACKUP_COUNT` | `LOG_BACKUP_COUNT` | `5` | Number of backup files to keep |

### Remote HTTP Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `remote_url` | `LOG_REMOTE` | `LOG_REMOTE` | `None` | HTTP endpoint URL |

### Kafka Settings

| Option | Env Variable | YAML Key | Default | Description |
|--------|--------------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `kafka_servers` | `LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS` | `LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS` | `None` | Kafka bootstrap servers |
| `kafka_topic` | `LOG_KAFKA_TOPIC` | `LOG_KAFKA_TOPIC` | `"logs"` | Kafka topic name |
| `schema_registry_url` | `LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY` | `LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY` | `None` | Schema Registry URL |
| `schema_compatibility` | `LOG_SCHEMA_COMPATIBILITY` | `LOG_SCHEMA_COMPATIBILITY` | `"BACKWARD"` | Schema compatibility mode |

---

## Log Levels

| Level | Value | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| `DEBUG` | 10 | Detailed information for debugging |
| `INFO` | 20 | General operational information |
| `WARNING` | 30 | Something unexpected happened |
| `ERROR` | 40 | A serious problem occurred |
| `CRITICAL` | 50 | Program may not be able to continue |

---

## Preset Modes

Logifyx includes preset configurations for common use cases:

### `dev` Mode (Development)

```python
{
    "level": "DEBUG",
    "color": True,
    "json_mode": False
}
```

Best for: Local development with verbose, colorful output.

### `prod` Mode (Production)

```python
{
    "level": "INFO",
    "color": False,
    "json_mode": True
}
```

Best for: Production with structured JSON logs for aggregators like ELK, Splunk.

### `simple` Mode

```python
{
    "level": "INFO",
    "color": False,
    "json_mode": False
}
```

Best for: Simple plain-text logging without colors.

### Using Presets

```python
# Preset with overrides
log = Logifyx(
    name="myapp",
    mode="prod",        # Use production preset
)
```

---

## Environment-Specific Configuration

### Development Setup

```yaml
# logifyx.yaml
LOG_MODE: dev
LOG_LEVEL: DEBUG
LOG_COLOR: True
```

### Production Setup

```yaml
# logifyx.yaml
LOG_MODE: prod
LOG_LEVEL: INFO
LOG_JSON: True
LOG_REMOTE: http://log-aggregator:5000/logs
LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS: kafka:9092
```

### Using `.env` for Secrets

```env
# .env (add to .gitignore)
LOG_REMOTE=http://internal-log-server:5000/logs
LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS=kafka.internal:9092
LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY=http://schema-registry.internal:8081
```

---

## Viewing Current Configuration

Use the CLI to inspect resolved configuration:

```bash
logifyx --config
```

Output:
```
📦 Logifyx Configuration (logifyx.yaml: found):

{
    "level": "DEBUG",
    "color": true,
    "max_bytes": 10000000,
    "backup_count": 5,
    "log_dir": "logs",
    "file": "app.log",
    "mode": "dev",
    "json_mode": false,
    "mask": true,
    "remote_url": null,
    "kafka_servers": "localhost:9092",
    "kafka_topic": "logs",
    "schema_registry_url": null,
    "schema_compatibility": "BACKWARD"
}
```

---

## Next Steps

- [Handlers Reference](handlers.md) - Learn about output handlers
- [Kafka Streaming](kafka.md) - Set up Kafka log streaming
- [CLI Reference](cli.md) - Command line tools
