docs/handlers.md, before:

# 📂 Handlers Reference

Logify uses multiple output handlers to write logs to different destinations simultaneously. This document explains each handler and how to configure them.

---

## Overview

| Handler | Description | Auto-enabled |
|---------|-------------|--------------|
| [Console Handler](#console-handler) | Colored stdout output | ✅ Always |
| [File Handler](#file-handler) | Rotating file with backups | ✅ Always |
| [Remote HTTP Handler](#remote-http-handler) | POST to HTTP endpoint | When `remote_url` set |
| [Kafka Handler](#kafka-handler) | Stream to Kafka topic | When `kafka_servers` set |

All handlers are managed automatically by Logify. You just need to provide the configuration.

---

## Console Handler

**Always enabled.** Writes logs to stdout with optional color coding.

### Features

- Color-coded by log level (when `color=True`)
- Human-readable format for development
- Shows timestamp, logger name, level, message, file, and line number

### Configuration

```python
log = Logify(
    name="myapp",
    color=True  # Enable colored output
)
```

### Color Mapping

| Level | Color |
|-------|-------|
| DEBUG | Cyan |
| INFO | Green |
| WARNING | Yellow |
| ERROR | Red |
| CRITICAL | Bold Red |

### Example Output

```
2024-02-11 15:30:45 - myapp - INFO - Server started - /app/main.py - main.py - 42
2024-02-11 15:30:46 - myapp - WARNING - High memory usage - /app/main.py - main.py - 56
2024-02-11 15:30:47 - myapp - ERROR - Connection failed - /app/main.py - main.py - 78
```

---

## File Handler

**Always enabled.** Writes logs to a rotating file with automatic backup management.

### Features

- **Rotating files**: Automatically rotates when file reaches size limit
- **Backup management**: Keeps N backup files, deletes oldest
- **Concurrent-safe**: Uses `ConcurrentRotatingFileHandler` for multi-process safety
- **Auto-creates directory**: Creates log directory if it doesn't exist

### Configuration

```python
log = Logify(
    name="myapp",
    file="myapp.log",       # Log file name
    log_dir="logs",         # Directory for logs
    max_bytes=10_000_000,   # 10MB max file size
    backup_count=5          # Keep 5 backup files
)
```

### File Structure

```
logs/
├── myapp.log           # Current log file
├── myapp.log.1         # Previous (most recent backup)
├── myapp.log.2         # Older backup
├── myapp.log.3
├── myapp.log.4
└── myapp.log.5         # Oldest backup (deleted when 6th is created)
```

### Rotation Behavior

1. When `myapp.log` reaches `max_bytes` (10MB default)
2. Existing backups are renamed: `.1` → `.2`, `.2` → `.3`, etc.
3. `myapp.log` becomes `myapp.log.1`
4. New `myapp.log` is created
5. If backups exceed `backup_count`, oldest is deleted

---

## Remote HTTP Handler

**Enabled when `remote_url` is set.** Sends log records to an HTTP endpoint via POST requests.

### Features

- **Queue-based async**: Uses `QueueHandler` + `QueueListener` for non-blocking sends
- **Thread-safe**: Internal locking for safe concurrent access
- **Auto-retry**: Retries on failures
- **Circuit breaker**: Disables after N consecutive failures
- **JSON payload**: Structured log data with exception info

### Architecture

```
Logify Logger
    ↓
QueueHandler (instant, non-blocking)
    ↓
QueueListener (background thread)
    ↓
RemoteHandler → HTTP POST
```

This ensures logging never blocks your main application thread.

### Configuration

```python
log = Logify(
    name="myapp",
    remote_url="http://localhost:5000/logs"
)
```

Or via config:

```yaml
# logify.yaml
LOG_REMOTE: http://log-server:5000/logs
```

### Payload Format

Each log record is sent as a JSON POST request:

```json
{
  "level": "INFO",
  "message": "2024-02-11 15:30:45 - auth - INFO - User logged in",
  "logger": "auth-service",
  "timestamp": 1707666000.123456,
  "file": "/app/auth/login.py",
  "line": 42,
  "func": "handle_login",
  "exception": null
}
```

### Receiving Logs

Example Flask server to receive logs:

```python
from flask import Flask, request

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/logs', methods=['POST'])
def receive_logs():
    log_data = request.json
    print(f"[{log_data['level']}] {log_data['service']}: {log_data['message']}")
    return {"status": "received"}, 200

if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(port=5000)
```

### Circuit Breaker

The handler automatically disables itself after 3 consecutive failures to prevent:
- Blocking the application
- Flooding a failing server
- Memory buildup from queued requests

```python
# Internal behavior:
# After 3 failures → handler.disabled = True
# No more attempts until restart
```

---

## Kafka Handler

**Enabled when `kafka_servers` is set.** Streams logs to Apache Kafka with Avro serialization.

### Features

- **Async producer**: Non-blocking with `aiokafka`
- **Avro serialization**: Efficient binary format
- **Schema Registry**: Optional Confluent Schema Registry integration
- **Schema evolution**: Supports BACKWARD, FORWARD, FULL compatibility
- **Circuit breaker**: Auto-disables after failures
- **Compression**: Gzip compression by default

### Configuration

```python
log = Logify(
    name="myapp",
    kafka_servers="localhost:9092",
    kafka_topic="app-logs",
    schema_registry_url="http://localhost:8081",  # Optional
    schema_compatibility="BACKWARD"
)
```

Or via config:

```yaml
# logify.yaml
LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS: localhost:9092
LOG_KAFKA_TOPIC: app-logs
LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY: http://localhost:8081
LOG_SCHEMA_COMPATIBILITY: BACKWARD
```

### Avro Schema

Logs are serialized using this Avro schema:

```json
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "LogRecord",
  "namespace": "com.logify.logs",
  "fields": [
    {"name": "level", "type": "string"},
    {"name": "message", "type": "string"},
    {"name": "service", "type": "string"},
    {"name": "timestamp", "type": "string"},
    {"name": "file", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null},
    {"name": "line", "type": ["null", "int"], "default": null},
    {"name": "function", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null},
    {"name": "exception", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null},
    {"name": "extra", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null},
    {"name": "schema_version", "type": "int", "default": 1}
  ]
}
```

📖 See [Kafka Streaming Guide](kafka.md) for detailed setup instructions.

---

## Sensitive Data Masking

All handlers support sensitive data masking via the `MaskFilter`.

### Masked Patterns

```python
SENSITIVE = [
    r"password=\S+",
    r"token=\S+",
    r"secret=\S+",
    r"api_key=\S+",
    r"access_key=\S+",
    r"access_token=\S+",
]
```

### Example

```python
log = Logify(name="auth", mask=True)

log.info("Login attempt password=secret123 token=abc")
# All handlers receive: "Login attempt **** ****"
```

---

## Handler Priority and Formatting

### Format by Handler Type

| Handler | Color | JSON |
|---------|-------|------|
| Console | ✅ Respects `color` setting | ✅ If `json_mode=True` |
| File | ❌ Never (not readable in files) | ✅ If `json_mode=True` |
| Remote HTTP | ❌ N/A (sends JSON payload) | Always JSON |
| Kafka | ❌ N/A (sends Avro) | Always Avro/JSON |

### Log Format

Standard format (non-JSON):
```
%(asctime)s - %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s - %(pathname)s - %(filename)s - %(lineno)d
```

Example:
```
2024-02-11 15:30:45 - myapp - INFO - Server started - /app/main.py - main.py - 42
```

JSON format (`json_mode=True`):
```json
{"asctime": "2024-02-11 15:30:45", "name": "myapp", "levelname": "INFO", "message": "Server started"}
```

---

## Next Steps

- [Configuration Guide](configuration.md) - All configuration options
- [Kafka Streaming](kafka.md) - Detailed Kafka setup
- [CLI Reference](cli.md) - Command line tools

Commit message:

Rename Logify to Logifyx throughout the codebase, updating all references, configuration files, and documentation accordingly. Adjust CLI commands, YAML configuration, and example scripts to reflect the new naming convention. Ensure all tests are updated to use Logifyx and verify functionality remains intact.

docs/handlers.md, after:

# 📂 Handlers Reference

Logifyx uses multiple output handlers to write logs to different destinations simultaneously. This document explains each handler and how to configure them.

---

## Overview

| Handler | Description | Auto-enabled |
|---------|-------------|--------------|
| [Console Handler](#console-handler) | Colored stdout output | ✅ Always |
| [File Handler](#file-handler) | Rotating file with backups | ✅ Always |
| [Remote HTTP Handler](#remote-http-handler) | POST to HTTP endpoint | When `remote_url` set |
| [Kafka Handler](#kafka-handler) | Stream to Kafka topic | When `kafka_servers` set |

All handlers are managed automatically by Logifyx. You just need to provide the configuration.

---

## Console Handler

**Always enabled.** Writes logs to stdout with optional color coding.

### Features

- Color-coded by log level (when `color=True`)
- Human-readable format for development
- Shows timestamp, logger name, level, message, file, and line number

### Configuration

```python
log = Logifyx(
    name="myapp",
    color=True  # Enable colored output
)
```

### Color Mapping

| Level | Color |
|-------|-------|
| DEBUG | Cyan |
| INFO | Green |
| WARNING | Yellow |
| ERROR | Red |
| CRITICAL | Bold Red |

### Example Output

```
2024-02-11 15:30:45 - myapp - INFO - Server started - /app/main.py - main.py - 42
2024-02-11 15:30:46 - myapp - WARNING - High memory usage - /app/main.py - main.py - 56
2024-02-11 15:30:47 - myapp - ERROR - Connection failed - /app/main.py - main.py - 78
```

---

## File Handler

**Always enabled.** Writes logs to a rotating file with automatic backup management.

### Features

- **Rotating files**: Automatically rotates when file reaches size limit
- **Backup management**: Keeps N backup files, deletes oldest
- **Concurrent-safe**: Uses `ConcurrentRotatingFileHandler` for multi-process safety
- **Auto-creates directory**: Creates log directory if it doesn't exist

### Configuration

```python
log = Logifyx(
    name="myapp",
    file="myapp.log",       # Log file name
    log_dir="logs",         # Directory for logs
    max_bytes=10_000_000,   # 10MB max file size
    backup_count=5          # Keep 5 backup files
)
```

### File Structure

```
logs/
├── myapp.log           # Current log file
├── myapp.log.1         # Previous (most recent backup)
├── myapp.log.2         # Older backup
├── myapp.log.3
├── myapp.log.4
└── myapp.log.5         # Oldest backup (deleted when 6th is created)
```

### Rotation Behavior

1. When `myapp.log` reaches `max_bytes` (10MB default)
2. Existing backups are renamed: `.1` → `.2`, `.2` → `.3`, etc.
3. `myapp.log` becomes `myapp.log.1`
4. New `myapp.log` is created
5. If backups exceed `backup_count`, oldest is deleted

---

## Remote HTTP Handler

**Enabled when `remote_url` is set.** Sends log records to an HTTP endpoint via POST requests.

### Features

- **Queue-based async**: Uses `QueueHandler` + `QueueListener` for non-blocking sends
- **Thread-safe**: Internal locking for safe concurrent access
- **Auto-retry**: Retries on failures
- **Circuit breaker**: Disables after N consecutive failures
- **JSON payload**: Structured log data with exception info

### Architecture

```
Logifyx Logger
    ↓
QueueHandler (instant, non-blocking)
    ↓
QueueListener (background thread)
    ↓
RemoteHandler → HTTP POST
```

This ensures logging never blocks your main application thread.

### Configuration

```python
log = Logifyx(
    name="myapp",
    remote_url="http://localhost:5000/logs"
)
```

Or via config:

```yaml
# logifyx.yaml
LOG_REMOTE: http://log-server:5000/logs
```

### Payload Format

Each log record is sent as a JSON POST request:

```json
{
  "level": "INFO",
  "message": "2024-02-11 15:30:45 - auth - INFO - User logged in",
  "logger": "auth-service",
  "timestamp": 1707666000.123456,
  "file": "/app/auth/login.py",
  "line": 42,
  "func": "handle_login",
  "exception": null
}
```

### Receiving Logs

Example Flask server to receive logs:

```python
from flask import Flask, request

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/logs', methods=['POST'])
def receive_logs():
    log_data = request.json
    print(f"[{log_data['level']}] {log_data['service']}: {log_data['message']}")
    return {"status": "received"}, 200

if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(port=5000)
```

### Circuit Breaker

The handler automatically disables itself after 3 consecutive failures to prevent:
- Blocking the application
- Flooding a failing server
- Memory buildup from queued requests

```python
# Internal behavior:
# After 3 failures → handler.disabled = True
# No more attempts until restart
```

---

## Kafka Handler

**Enabled when `kafka_servers` is set.** Streams logs to Apache Kafka with Avro serialization.

### Features

- **Async producer**: Non-blocking with `aiokafka`
- **Avro serialization**: Efficient binary format
- **Schema Registry**: Optional Confluent Schema Registry integration
- **Schema evolution**: Supports BACKWARD, FORWARD, FULL compatibility
- **Circuit breaker**: Auto-disables after failures
- **Compression**: Gzip compression by default

### Configuration

```python
log = Logifyx(
    name="myapp",
    kafka_servers="localhost:9092",
    kafka_topic="app-logs",
    schema_registry_url="http://localhost:8081",  # Optional
    schema_compatibility="BACKWARD"
)
```

Or via config:

```yaml
# logifyx.yaml
LOG_KAFKA_SERVERS: localhost:9092
LOG_KAFKA_TOPIC: app-logs
LOG_SCHEMA_REGISTRY: http://localhost:8081
LOG_SCHEMA_COMPATIBILITY: BACKWARD
```

### Avro Schema

Logs are serialized using this Avro schema:

```json
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "LogRecord",
  "namespace": "com.logifyx.logs",
  "fields": [
    {"name": "level", "type": "string"},
    {"name": "message", "type": "string"},
    {"name": "service", "type": "string"},
    {"name": "timestamp", "type": "string"},
    {"name": "file", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null},
    {"name": "line", "type": ["null", "int"], "default": null},
    {"name": "function", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null},
    {"name": "exception", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null},
    {"name": "extra", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null},
    {"name": "schema_version", "type": "int", "default": 1}
  ]
}
```

📖 See [Kafka Streaming Guide](kafka.md) for detailed setup instructions.

---

## Sensitive Data Masking

All handlers support sensitive data masking via the `MaskFilter`.

### Masked Patterns

```python
SENSITIVE = [
    r"password=\S+",
    r"token=\S+",
    r"secret=\S+",
    r"api_key=\S+",
    r"access_key=\S+",
    r"access_token=\S+",
]
```

### Example

```python
log = Logifyx(name="auth", mask=True)

log.info("Login attempt password=secret123 token=abc")
# All handlers receive: "Login attempt **** ****"
```

---

## Handler Priority and Formatting

### Format by Handler Type

| Handler | Color | JSON |
|---------|-------|------|
| Console | ✅ Respects `color` setting | ✅ If `json_mode=True` |
| File | ❌ Never (not readable in files) | ✅ If `json_mode=True` |
| Remote HTTP | ❌ N/A (sends JSON payload) | Always JSON |
| Kafka | ❌ N/A (sends Avro) | Always Avro/JSON |

### Log Format

Standard format (non-JSON):
```
%(asctime)s - %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s - %(pathname)s - %(filename)s - %(lineno)d
```

Example:
```
2024-02-11 15:30:45 - myapp - INFO - Server started - /app/main.py - main.py - 42
```

JSON format (`json_mode=True`):
```json
{"asctime": "2024-02-11 15:30:45", "name": "myapp", "levelname": "INFO", "message": "Server started"}
```

---

## Next Steps

- [Configuration Guide](configuration.md) - All configuration options
- [Kafka Streaming](kafka.md) - Detailed Kafka setup
- [CLI Reference](cli.md) - Command line tools
